# Reference

## Commands

### :ExColors[!]

Generate a new colorscheme to the directory
set in [colors_dir](#colors_dir) option,
and open the file in a new tab.
The name will be determined as the current value of `g:colors_name` prefixed
by _ex-_, e.g., _ex-habamax_ for _habamax_.

With `!` appended, overwrite the file `ex-{g:colors_name}.lua`,
ignoring all the filter and modifier options.
It is useful
to know what you can get primarily,
and, once committed in git, to know
(not necessarily but with some git integration plugins like
[vim-fugitive][],
[gitsigns.nvim][],
etc.)
what definitions are filtered off, or converted,

Please note that some colorscheme plugins provide multiple flavors sharing
a single `g:colors_name`.
Given a colorscheme plugin _foobar.nvim_
which provides 3 flavors, _foobar-dark_, _foobar-light_, _foobar-dimmed_,
but `g:colors_name` is set to `"foobar"` each,
execute `:colorscheme foobar-dark` anyhow in your vimrc,
and then execute `:ExColors` in Command-line mode,
the new colorscheme name generated by `ex-colors` would be
not _ex-foobar-dark_,
but _ex-foobar_.

## Options

### colors_dir

(type: `string`; default: `vim.fn.stdpath("config") .. "/colors"`)

The directory, in absolute path,
to generate new colorscheme files by the command [`:ExColors`](#:ExColors).

### restore_original_before_execution

(type: `boolean`; default: `false`)

If set to `true`, `ex-colors` resets to the original colorscheme,
assumed by current <i>ex-</i>colorscheme name,
just before collecting highlight definitions.
Enabling this option is, however, _unrecommended;_
the reset is likely to make `ex-colors` collect unwanted definitions only to
increase your filtering costs.
Keep it disabled, and restart your nvim with the original colorscheme
when you re-run [`:ExColors`](#:ExColors).

### ignore_clear

(type: `boolean`; default: `true`)

If set to `true`, `ex-colors` will NOT generate highlight definitions whose
options are empty tables.

### omit_default

(type: `boolean`; default: `false`)

If `true`, omit the `default` keys in the output.
See `:help :hi-default`.

### resolve_links

(type: `boolean`; default: `false`)

Resolve `link` option,
i.e.,
copy the definition map (`fg`, `bg`, etc.) from the linked highlight definition.

### relinker

(type: `fun(string): string|false`; default: `function() end`)

This option is for advanced users.

If `nil`, it does nothing.
It helps you eliminate obsolete, or deprecated, highlight definitions
in the output.

The [Cookbook](./COOKBOOK.md) shows demonstrations.

### case_sensitive

(type: `boolean`; default: `true`)

If `true`, the patterns are applied to `hl-group` names as they are;
on the other hand, if `false`, the patterns are applied in lowercased
`hl-group` names.

This option affects the patterns of the following options:

- [autocmd_patterns](#autocmd_patterns)
- [excluded_patterns](#excluded_patterns)
- [included_patterns](#included_patterns)

### included_patterns

(type: `string[]`; default: `{}`)

Set `false` to disable `included_patterns`.
The [Cookbook](./COOKBOOK.md) shows demonstrations.

### excluded_patterns

(type: `string[]`; default: `{}`)

The [Cookbook](./COOKBOOK.md) shows demonstrations.

### autocmd_patterns

(type: `string[]`; default:
`{
    CmdlineEnter = {
        ["*"] = {
                "^Nvim%u"
            }
    }
}`)

Generate matched highlight definitions only on the autocmd event.

The [Cookbook](./COOKBOOK.md) shows demonstrations.

### gvar_supports

(type: `string[]`; default: `{
    "terminal_color_0",
    "terminal_color_1",
    "terminal_color_2",
    "terminal_color_3",
    "terminal_color_4",
    "terminal_color_5",
    "terminal_color_6",
    "terminal_color_7",
    "terminal_color_8",
    "terminal_color_9",
    "terminal_color_10",
    "terminal_color_11",
    "terminal_color_12",
    "terminal_color_13",
    "terminal_color_14",
    "terminal_color_15",
}`)

`ex-colors` also generates lines for `vim.g` variables set in this option.

[gitsigns.nvim]: https://github.com/lewis6991/gitsigns.nvim
[vim-fugitive]: https://github/tpope/vim-fugitive
